OBSDOCS-1478: Ability to modify UWM Prometheus scrape interval (#85651)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/monitoring-setting-scrape-and-evaluation-intervals-limits-for-user-defined-projects.adoc

// * observability/monitoring/configuring-the-monitoring-stack.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="setting-scrape-and-evaluation-intervals-limits-for-user-defined-projects_{context}"]

> = Setting scrape and evaluation intervals and scrape limits for user-defined projects

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Setting scrape and evaluation intervals and enforced limits for user-defined projects
```

> = Setting scrape and evaluation intervals and enforced limits for user-defined projects

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
= Setting scrape and evaluation intervals for enforced limits in user-defined projects
```

Reviewer 2: The double `and` reads awkward. Maybe: `Setting the scrape and evaluation intervals as well as enforced limits for user-defined projects`.

Author: Hello, I think the first suggestion would change the meaning, we have scrape and evaluation intervals and then we have enforced limits. it is not for enforced limits.  Not sure if "as well as" sounds better :thinking: 

I am thinking, this could work the best: `Setting scrape intervals, evaluation intervals, and enforced limits..`

Thank you for pointing this out!

You can set the following scrape and label limits for user-defined projects:

> * Limit the number of samples that can be accepted per target scrape

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure `Limit` is necessary in the bullet points. It seems implied by `the following scrape and label limits`.

Author: Good point. However, I think without the "limit" at the beginning it reads a little awkwardly. I was trying to find a solution here, maybe changing the introductory sentence (something like "You can set the enforced  limits  to limit the following..." repeats limit as well, or somethingl like "You can limit the following..." but then we would omit how that is done. So I think this solution seems the cleanest to me. But let me know if there are any other suggestions, thank you!

$ oc -n openshift-user-workload-monitoring edit configmap user-workload-monitoring-config
----

> . Add the interval and enforced limit configurations to `data/config.yaml`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Add the enforced limit and time interval configurations to `data/config.yaml`:
```

> . Add the enforced limit and time interval configurations to `data/config.yaml`:

Reviewer 2: I would recommend putting the configuration names back in this step because you are assuming the user knows what those are.

Author: But then we would have to list 6 parameters, which would make the sentence really long and complicated. Plus we explain everything in callout so no information is lost.

data:
  config.yaml: |
    prometheus:
      enforcedSampleLimit: 50000 <1>
      enforcedSampleLimit: 50000 # <1>
      enforcedLabelLimit: 500 # <2>
      enforcedLabelNameLengthLimit: 50 # <3>
      enforcedLabelValueLengthLimit: 600 # <4>
      scrapeInterval: 1m30s # <5>
      evaluationInterval: 1m15s # <6>
----
<1> A value is required if this parameter is specified. This `enforcedSampleLimit` example limits the number of samples that can be accepted per target scrape in user-defined projects to 50,000.

> . Add the `enforcedLabelLimit`, `enforcedLabelNameLengthLimit`, and `enforcedLabelValueLengthLimit` configurations to `data/config.yaml` to limit the number of scraped labels, the length of label names, and the length of label values in user-defined projects:

Reviewer: I didn't understand why we are removing this example and mentioned about only scrape interval

Author: Hello @slashpai , I merged it with the first example, as that is usually how we would have it in the docs. So instead of two steps that would happen simultaneously anyway, we have just one example YAML, as follows:

```
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: user-workload-monitoring-config
  namespace: openshift-user-workload-monitoring
data:
  config.yaml: |
    prometheus:
      enforcedSampleLimit: 50000 
      enforcedLabelLimit: 500 
      enforcedLabelNameLengthLimit: 50 
      enforcedLabelValueLengthLimit: 600 
      scrapeInterval: 1m30s 
      evaluationInterval: 1m15s 
```
You can see that the sample and label configurations are in just one example yaml instead of two. I hope that makes the change clearer. Thank you!

Author: The descriptions are there still for all the configurations, here is the preview for reference: https://85651--ocpdocs-pr.netlify.app/openshift-enterprise/latest/observability/monitoring/configuring-the-monitoring-stack.html#setting-scrape-and-evaluation-intervals-limits-for-user-defined-projects_configuring-the-monitoring-stack

Reviewer: May be we should use same wordings and add info about scrape Interval and evaluation interval. May be split into multiple lines?

```
. Add the `enforcedLabelLimit`, `enforcedLabelNameLengthLimit`, and `enforcedLabelValueLengthLimit` configurations to `data/config.yaml` to limit the number of scraped labels, the length of label names, and the length of label values in user-defined projects:
```

The default value is `0`, which specifies no limit.
<4> Specifies the maximum length in characters of a label value.
The default value is `0`, which specifies no limit.
<5> Specifies the interval between consecutive scrapes. The interval must be set between 5 seconds and 5 minutes.
The default value is `30s`.

> <6> Specifies the interval between Prometheus rule evaluations. The interval must be set between 5 seconds and 5 minutes.

Reviewer 3: both UWM prometheus and ThanosRuler support evaluationInterval setting, for UWM prometheus, default value for evaluationInterval is `30s`, see from https://github.com/openshift/cluster-monitoring-operator/blob/release-4.18/Documentation/api.md#prometheusrestrictedconfig

for ThanosRuler, default value is `15s`, see from https://github.com/openshift/cluster-monitoring-operator/blob/release-4.18/Documentation/api.md#thanosrulerconfig

> The default value is `15s`.

Reviewer 3: both UWM prometheus and ThanosRuler support evaluationInterval setting, for UWM prometheus, default value for evaluationInterval is `30s`, see from https://github.com/openshift/cluster-monitoring-operator/blob/release-4.18/Documentation/api.md#prometheusrestrictedconfig

for ThanosRuler, default value is `15s`, see from https://github.com/openshift/cluster-monitoring-operator/blob/release-4.18/Documentation/api.md#thanosrulerconfig

data:
  config.yaml: |
    prometheus:
      enforcedSampleLimit: 50000 # <1>
      enforcedLabelLimit: 500 # <2>
      enforcedLabelNameLengthLimit: 50 # <3>
      enforcedLabelValueLengthLimit: 600 # <4>
      scrapeInterval: 1m30s # <5>
      evaluationInterval: 1m15s # <6>
----
<1> A value is required if this parameter is specified. This `enforcedSampleLimit` example limits the number of samples that can be accepted per target scrape in user-defined projects to 50,000.
<2> Specifies the maximum number of labels per scrape.
The default value is `0`, which specifies no limit.

> <3> Specifies the maximum length in characters of a label name.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<3> Specifies the maximum character length for a label name.
```

The default value is `0`, which specifies no limit.

> <4> Specifies the maximum length in characters of a label value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<4> Specifies the maximum character length for a label value.
```
